# epilepsy-autism-multiplex-network

### Jupyter Notebooks   
`DAVID_GO_terms_analysis.ipynb`generates Figure 7 and the Gene Ontology enrichment columns (columns P to R or 16 to 18) in Supplementary Tables 2 and 3.  
`generate_supp_tables_and_gene_prioritization.ipynb` generates columns A to O (or 1 to 15) in Supplemtary Tables 2 and 3, Figure 1C, and Tables 2 and 3.  
`module_composition_and_gene_enrichment_figures.ipynb` generates Figure 3A and 3B, Figure 4, Figure 6A, and Figure S2.  
`phenotype_enrichment_figures.ipynb` generates Figure 5, Figure 6B, and the HPO enrichment column (column S or 19) in Supplementary Tables 2 and 3.  
`topology_analysis.ipynb` generates Figure 2 and Figure S4.  

### Folders with data
`DAVID_modules` and `DAVID_modules_wes` contain Gene Ontology output (GOTERM_BP_4, GOTERM_CC_4, and GOTERM_MF_4) using the [DAVID functional annotation tool](https://david.ncifcrf.gov/home.jsp) for modules in the larger multiplex network and WES multiplex network, respectively.   
`communities` and `communities_wes` contains information for modules in the larger multiplex network and WES multiplex network, respectively, including module annotations for each gene, gene enrichment information, and phenotype enrichment information. It also includes the same information for modules in the PPI and phenotype layers of the larger network and WES network.  
`gene_sets` contains data for the different gene sets used in the analysis (e.g. epilepsy genes, autism genes, epilepsy WES genes, autism WES genes, etc.).    
`gexf_files` contains the .gexf files that represent the PPI and phenotype networks, and the union of the two, generated using all epilepsy and autism genes or only WES genes. PPI, phenotype, and multiplex module annotations exist for each node in the .gexf files.    
`phenotypes` contains phenotype information that is used by other parts of the code.   

### Analysis pipeline
The `network_generation` folder has code and data to generate the PPI, phenotype, and multiplex networks. The files `9606.protein.links.v11.0.txt` and `9606.protein.info.v11.0.txt`, which contain the PPI information, can be downloaded from STRING: https://string-db.org/cgi/download?sessionId=%24input-%3E%7BsessionId%7D&species_text=Homo+sapiens. The Phen2Gene knowledge base can be downloaded from https://github.com/WGLab/Phen2Gene. The Notebook `generate_PPI_network.ipynb` should be run before `generate_phenotype_network.ipynb` in order to generate `genes.txt` and `genes_wes.txt`. `generate_multiplex_network_and_modules.ipynb` should be run after those two Notebooks.  
The `enrichment_analysis` folder has code and data to perform the gene and phenotype enrichment analysis. The file `phenotype_to_genes.txt` can be downloaded from https://hpo.jax.org/app/download/annotation.  
`network_info/info_df.csv` and `network_info/info_wes_df.csv` are generated by `module_composition_and_gene_enrichment_figures.ipynb` and contain topological, module, and annotation information for each gene that are used by other parts of the pipeline.  
Each Jupyter Notebook has a "Variables to be updated/configured" section with variables that can be updated as implied.  

### Other
`Supplementary_tables_20201205.xlsx` is an Excel file that contains the Supplementary tables.  
